# 27. Remove Element

Given an array nums and a value val, remove all instances of that value in-place and return the new length.

Do not allocate extra space for another array, you must do this by modifying the input array in-place with O(1) extra memory.

The order of elements can be changed. It doesn't matter what you leave beyond the new length.

Clarification:

Confused why the returned value is an integer but your answer is an array?

Note that the input array is passed in by reference, which means a modification to the input array will be known to the caller as well.

Internally you can think of this:

    // nums is passed in by reference. (i.e., without making a copy)
    int len = removeElement(nums, val);

    // any modification to nums in your function would be known by the caller.
    // using the length returned by your function, it prints the first len elements.
    for (int i = 0; i < len; i++) {
        print(nums[i]);
    } 

Example 1:

> Input: nums = [3,2,2,3], val = 3
> 
> Output: 2, nums = [2,2]
> 
> Explanation: Your function should return length = 2, with the first two elements of nums being 2. It doesn't matter what you leave beyond the returned length. For example if you return 2 with nums = [2,2,3,3] or nums = [2,2,0,0], your answer will be accepted.

Example 2:

> Input: nums = [0,1,2,2,3,0,4,2], val = 2
> 
> Output: 5, nums = [0,1,4,0,3]
> 
> Explanation: Your function should return length = 5, with the first five elements of nums containing 0, 1, 3, 0, and 4. Note that the order of those five elements can be arbitrary. It doesn't matter what values are set beyond the returned length.

Constraints:

> 0 <= nums.length <= 100
> 
> 0 <= nums[i] <= 50
> 
> 0 <= val <= 100

## Solution

### C++

This solution use a second for loop to discard the element and move the following elements one step forward.
```C++
class Solution {
public:
    int removeElement(vector<int>& nums, int val) {
        int size = nums.size();
        
        for(int i = 0; i < size; i++){
            // if the value of current element is the same as the required value
            if(nums[i] == val){
                // then discard the element and move all the following elements one step forward.
                for(int j = i + 1; j < size; j++){
                    nums[j - 1] = nums[j];
                }
                // maintain the same index i since there will be an increment of i at the end of the loop.
                i--;
                // reduce the size by one
                size--;
            }
        }
        
        return size;
    }
};
```

This solution use a slow pointer and a fast pointer, the fast pointer will keep moving but the slow pointer will only move if the nums[fast pointer] is not equal to the value.

If the nums[fast pointer] is not equal to the value, then assign nums[fast pointer] to nums[slow pointer] and move the slow pointer, effectively ignore the unwanted element and keep only the wanted element.

```C++
class Solution {
public:
    int removeElement(vector<int>& nums, int val) {
        int slowPointer = 0;
        
        for(int fastPointer = 0; fastPointer < nums.size(); fastPointer++){            
            if(nums[fastPointer] != val){
                nums[slowPointer] = nums[fastPointer];
                // move the slow pointer since the assignment of element to current index is done.
                slowPointer++;
            }
        }
        
        return slowPointer;
    }
};
```
