# 599. Minimum Index Sum of Two Lists

Suppose Andy and Doris want to choose a restaurant for dinner, and they both have a list of favorite restaurants represented by strings.

You need to help them find out their common interest with the least list index sum. If there is a choice tie between answers, output all of them with no order requirement. You could assume there always exists an answer.

Example 1:

> Input: list1 = ["Shogun","Tapioca Express","Burger King","KFC"], list2 = ["Piatti","The Grill at Torrey Pines","Hungry Hunter Steakhouse","Shogun"]
> 
> Output: ["Shogun"]
> 
> Explanation: The only restaurant they both like is "Shogun".

Example 2:

> Input: list1 = ["Shogun","Tapioca Express","Burger King","KFC"], list2 = ["KFC","Shogun","Burger King"]
> 
> Output: ["Shogun"]
> 
> Explanation: The restaurant they both like and have the least index sum is "Shogun" with index sum 1 (0+1).

Example 3:

> Input: list1 = ["Shogun","Tapioca Express","Burger King","KFC"], list2 = ["KFC","Burger King","Tapioca Express","Shogun"]
> 
> Output: ["KFC","Burger King","Tapioca Express","Shogun"]

Example 4:

> Input: list1 = ["Shogun","Tapioca Express","Burger King","KFC"], list2 = ["KNN","KFC","Burger King","Tapioca Express","Shogun"]
> 
> Output: ["KFC","Burger King","Tapioca Express","Shogun"]

Example 5:

> Input: list1 = ["KFC"], list2 = ["KFC"]
> 
> Output: ["KFC"]

Constraints:

* 1 <= list1.length, list2.length <= 1000
* 1 <= list1[i].length, list2[i].length <= 30
* list1[i] and list2[i] consist of spaces ' ' and English letters.
* All the stings of list1 are unique.
* All the stings of list2 are unique.

## Solution

### C++

1. Get the restaurents in list2.
2. Traverse list2 and check whether it has the same restaurents as list2.
3. Calculate the index sum for the restaurent if it appears in both list and record the minimum index sum.
4. Traverse the map that stores the common restaurents and insert the restaurents with the least index sum into a vector. 
```C++
class Solution {
public:
    vector<string> findRestaurant(vector<string>& list1, vector<string>& list2) {
        unordered_map<string, int> map1;
        unordered_map<string, int> indexSum;
        vector<string> ret;
        int minIndexSum = INT_MAX;
        
        for(int i = 0; i < list1.size(); i++){
            map1[list1[i]] = i;
        }
        
        for(int i = 0; i < list2.size(); i++){
            if(map1.find(list2[i]) != map1.end()){
                indexSum[list2[i]] = map1[list2[i]] + i;
                minIndexSum = min(minIndexSum, indexSum[list2[i]]);
            }

        }
        
        for(pair<string, int> p: indexSum){
            if(p.second == minIndexSum){
                ret.push_back(p.first);
            }
        }
        
        return ret;
    }
};

